feat(connectors): add Microsoft Teams Connector documentation (#1556)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/microsoft-teams.md

| :---------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :------: | :------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|        Group ID         | Create channel <br/> Get channel <br/> List channels <br/> Send message to channel <br/> Get channel message <br/> List channel messages <br/> List message replies <br/> List members |   Yes    |  string  |                                                Microsoft Teams group id                                                |
|       Channel ID        |           Get channel <br/> List channels <br/> Send message to channel <br/> Get channel message <br/> List channel messages <br/> List message replies <br/> List members            |   Yes    |  string  |                                               Microsoft Teams channel id                                               |

> |      Display name       |                                                                                     Create channel                                                                                     |    No    |  string  |                                         Displayed name of new MS teams channel                                         |

Reviewer: When you say "MS teams channel" do you mean Microsoft Teams channel? If so, I would spell this out formally.

|       Description       |                                                                                     Create channel                                                                                     |    No    |   text   |                                          Description of new MS teams channel                                           |
| Channel membership type |                                                                                     Create channel                                                                                     |   Yes    | dropdown | See [teams-channels-overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoftteams/teams-channels-overview) for more information |

> |          Owner          |                                                                Create channel (if Channel membership type != STANDARD)                                                                 |   Yes    |  string  |                               Channel owner; MS teams user id or MS teams principal name                               |

Reviewer: Same comment here.

          "second": 33,
          "nano": 361000000
        }
      },
      "offset": {
        "totalSeconds": 0
      }
    },
    "tenantId": "0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000",
    "webUrl": "https://teams.microsoft.com/l/chat/19%3Aefb08ac3-0000f-0000-0000-example-chat-id_fe35bf61-0000-0000-0000-ddc97d8903d4%40unq.gbl.spaces/0?tenantId=00000-0000-0000-0000-00000000",
    "id": "19%3Aefb08ac3-0000f-0000-0000-example-chat-id_fe35bf61-0000-0000-0000-ddc97d8903d4%40unq.gbl.spaces"
  }
}
```

See [channel resource type](https://learn.microsoft.com/graph/api/resources/channel?view=graph-rest-1.0) to find the response for the required method for a channel conversation type, or see [chat resource type](https://learn.microsoft.com/graph/api/resources/chat?view=graph-rest-1.0) to find the response for the required method for a chat conversation type.

You can use an output mapping to map the response:

1. Use **Result Variable** to store the response in a process variable. For example, `myResultVariable`.
2. Use **Result Expression** to map fields from the response into process variables. For example:

```
= {
  "chatId": result.id,
  "tenantId": result.tenantId
}
```

> ## Appendix & FAQ

Reviewer: As this is mentioned on line 18 and users are directed here, and then again directed to managing secrets, would it be better to remove this appendix section and on line 18 just say something like:
:::note
It is highly recommended to use Camunda secrets to store credentials so you don't expose sensitive information directly from the process. See [managing secrets](../../../components/console/manage-clusters/manage-secrets.md) to learn more.
:::

---
id: microsoft-teams
title: Microsoft Teams Connector
sidebar_label: Microsoft Teams Connector
description: Work with Microsoft Teams from your BPMN process using the MicrosoftTeams Connector.
---

The **MicrosoftTeams Connector** allows you to connect your BPMN process with [Microsoft Teams](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-teams/).

## Prerequisites

To use the **MicrosoftTeams Connector**, you need to have account
of [Microsoft Teams](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-teams/) and
relevant [permissions](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/manage-team-settings-92d238e6-0ae2-447e-af90-40b1052c4547)
or registered application in [Azure Active Directory](https://aad.portal.azure.com/) (follow
guide [how to register app](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth-register-app-v2) for see more ) with

> relevant [Microsoft Graph API permissions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/permissions-reference).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the relevant [Microsoft Graph API permissions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/permissions-reference).
```

## Create a Microsoft Teams Connector task

To use the **Microsoft Teams Connector** in your process, either change the type of existing task by clicking on it and
using the wrench-shaped **Change type** context menu icon, or create a new Connector task by using the **Append
Connector** context menu. Follow our [guide on using Connectors](../use-connectors.md) to learn more.

## Make your Microsoft Teams Connector executable

For work with Microsoft Teams, choose the required connection type in the **Authentication** section and complete the
mandatory fields highlighted in red in the connector properties panel:

![connectors-microsoft-teams-red-properties](../img/connectors-microsoft-teams-red-properties.png)

:::note
All the mandatory and non-mandatory fields depending on the authentication selection you choose are covered in the
upcoming sections.
:::

## Authentication

You can choose among the available Microsoft Teams Connectors according to your authentication requirements.
Microsoft Teams Connector use [Microsoft Graph API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/overview) for work.

> First, you must have a user account in Microsoft Teams with the necessary permissions. See more at

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, you must have a user account with the Microsoft Teams with the necessary permissions. See more at
```

> the [Microsoft Teams overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoftteams/teams-overview). If you are not have

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the [Microsoft Teams overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoftteams/teams-overview). If you don't have
```

> administration role and permissions ask your Microsoft Teams administrator to add needed permissions for work with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
administration role and permissions ask your Microsoft Teams administrator to add required permissions for work with
```

> Microsoft Teams Connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the **Microsoft Teams Connector**.
```

> - More information about Microsoft Graph auth you can find here : [Microsoft Graph auth overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- More information about the Microsoft Graph API authentication you can find here : [Microsoft Graph auth overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth/)
```

Next, you will choose the type of connection.

### Bearer Token type authentication

For a Token type authentication, take the following steps:

1. Click the **Token** connection type in the **Authentication** section
2. Set **Token** to `Token`.

![bearer token](../img/connectors-microsoft-teams-bearer-token.png)

> See more about [Microsoft Teams Access Token](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/access-tokens);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See more about [Microsoft Teams Access Token](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/access-tokens).
```

> #### A few ways for getting Access Token :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Options to obtain an access token
```

> 1. Go to [developer.microsoft.com/graph/graph-explorer](https://developer.microsoft.com/graph/graph-explorer);
>    - Login with your Microsoft account;
>    - Choose Tab 'Access Token' and copy Bearer Token :
>      ![connectors-microsoft-teams-copy-token](../img/connectors-microsoft-teams-copy-token.png)
> 2. Register your app with the Microsoft identity platform and send a POST request to the '/token' identity platform endpoint to acquire an access token
>    - How to register your App you can read here : [Register your app](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth-register-app-v2)
>    - How to get access on behalf of a user you can read here : [Get access on behalf of a user](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth-v2-user)
>    - How to get access without a user you can read here : [Get access without a user](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth-v2-service)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Via the graph explorer
   - Visit [developer.microsoft.com/graph/graph-explorer](https://developer.microsoft.com/graph/graph-explorer)
   - Login with your Microsoft account
   - Choose tab 'Access Token' and copy the bearer token
   
![connectors-microsoft-teams-copy-token](../img/connectors-microsoft-teams-copy-token.png)

2. Register your app with the Microsoft identity platform and send a POST request to the `/token` identity platform endpoint to acquire an access token
   - How to register your App: [Register your app](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth-register-app-v2)
   - How to get access on behalf of a user: [Get access on behalf of a user](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth-v2-user)
   - How to get access without a user: [Get access without a user](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth-v2-service)
```

### Client credentials type authentication

For a Client credentials type authentication, take the following steps:

1. Click the **Client credentials** connection type in the **Authentication** section

> 2. Set **Tenant id** to `Tenant ID`. (Your Microsoft Teams tenant ID is a unique identifier. See more [How to find Tenant ID](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-how-to-find-tenant))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Set **Tenant id** to `Tenant ID`. (Your Microsoft Teams tenant ID is a unique identifier. See more about [how to find a tenant ID](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-how-to-find-tenant))
```

> 3. Set **Client id** to `Client ID`. (The application ID that the [Azure app registration portal](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2083908) assigned to your app.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Set **Client id** to `Client ID`. (The application ID that the [Azure app registration portal](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2083908) assigned to your app)
```

> 3. Set **Client id** to `Client ID`. (The application ID that the [Azure app registration portal](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2083908) assigned to your app.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Set the **Client ID** field: the application ID that the [Azure app registration portal](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2083908) assigned to your app
```

> 4. Set **Secret id** to `Secret ID`. (The client secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Set the **Secret ID** field: the client secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app
```

![client credentials](../img/connectors-microsoft-teams-client-credentials.png)

## Conversation type and method

> In the **Operation** section you could choose conversation type, for now it is **Chat** and **Channel**, after that you need choose one of suggestion method :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the **Operation** section you could choose a conversation type, either **Chat**, or **Channel**, after that you need to choose one of suggested method:
```

> ![todo add gif](../img/connectors-microsoft-teams-choose-method.gif)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![MS Teams Choose Method](../img/connectors-microsoft-teams-choose-method.gif)
```

:::note

> For example, if you want to send message in Microsoft Teams channel, you need choose conversation type **Channel** and method **Send message in channel**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to send a message in Microsoft Teams channel, you need choose conversation type **Channel** and method **Send message in channel**
```

:::

## Data section

### Chat conversation type

> #### Properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Properties
```

|   Filter   |                                                              List messages in chat                                                              |    No    |     string      | Sets the date range filter for the lastModifiedDateTime and createdDateTime properties |
| Message ID |                                                               Get message in chat                                                               |   Yes    |     string      |                            Microsoft teams chat message id                             |

##### Members property

Members property must contain list of Member:

|     Property      |     Type     | Required                               |
| :---------------: | :----------: | -------------------------------------- |
|      userId       |    string    | Yes, if 'userPrincipalName' is not set |
| userPrincipalName |    string    | Yes, if 'userId' is not set            |
|       roles       | string array | Yes                                    |

> Example :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example:
```

![members property](../img/connectors-microsoft-teams-members.png)

```json
[
  {
    "userId": "abc01234-0c7f-012c-9876-&812dsfw2",
    "roles": ["owner"]
  },
  {
    "principalName": "john.dou@mail.com",
    "roles": ["owner"]
  }
]
```

> #### Methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Methods
```

|  Create a new chat   |          [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chat-post](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chat-post?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http)          |
|    Get chat by ID    |           [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chat-get](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chat-get?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http)           |
|  List chat members   |  [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chat-list-members](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chat-list-members?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http)  |
| Send message in chat | [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chat-post-messages](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chat-post-messages?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http) |
| Get message in chat  |    [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chatmessage-get](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chatmessage-get?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http)    |
|  List chat members   |  [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chat-list-members](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chat-list-members?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http)  |

### Channel conversation type

> #### Properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Properties
```

|           Top           |                                                                                 List channel messages                                                                                  |    No    | numbers  |                                       Controls the number of items per response                                        |
|      With replies       |                                                                                 List channel messages                                                                                  |   Yes    | boolean  |          Choose 'FALSE' for get messages without replies<br/>Choose 'FALSE' for get messages without replies           |
|       Message ID        |                                                                                  List message replies                                                                                  |   Yes    |  string  |                                           Microsoft Teams channel message id                                           |

> #### Methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Methods
```

| Send message to channel | [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/channel-post-messages](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/channel-post-messages?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http)       |
|   Get channel message   | [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chatmessage-get](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chatmessage-get?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http)                   |
|  List channel messages  | [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/channel-list-messages](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/channel-list-messages?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http)       |
|  List message replies   | [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chatmessage-list-replies](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chatmessage-list-replies?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http) |
|      List members       | [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/channel-list-members](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/channel-list-members?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http)         |

## Microsoft Teams Connector response

> The **Microsoft Teams Connector** returns the Microsoft Graph API response in 'result' wrapper:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Microsoft Teams Connector** returns the Microsoft Graph API response in `result` wrapper:
```

```json
{
  "result": {
    "chatType": "ONE_ON_ONE",
    "createdDateTime": {
      "dateTime": {
        "date": {
          "year": 2022,
          "month": 11,
          "day": 29
        },
        "time": {
          "hour": 18,
          "minute": 10,
          "second": 33,
          "nano": 361000000
        }
      },
      "offset": {
        "totalSeconds": 0
      }
    },
    "lastUpdatedDateTime": {
      "dateTime": {
        "date": {
          "year": 2022,
          "month": 11,
          "day": 29
        },
        "time": {
          "hour": 18,
          "minute": 10,
          "second": 33,
          "nano": 361000000
        }
      },
      "offset": {
        "totalSeconds": 0
      }
    },
    "tenantId": "0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000",
    "webUrl": "https://teams.microsoft.com/l/chat/19%3Aefb08ac3-0000f-0000-0000-example-chat-id_fe35bf61-0000-0000-0000-ddc97d8903d4%40unq.gbl.spaces/0?tenantId=00000-0000-0000-0000-00000000",
    "id": "19%3Aefb08ac3-0000f-0000-0000-example-chat-id_fe35bf61-0000-0000-0000-ddc97d8903d4%40unq.gbl.spaces"
  }
}
```

> See [channel resource type](https://learn.microsoft.com/graph/api/resources/channel?view=graph-rest-1.0) for find response on needed method for channel conversation type or see [chat resource type](https://learn.microsoft.com/graph/api/resources/chat?view=graph-rest-1.0) for find response on needed method for chat conversation type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [channel resource type](https://learn.microsoft.com/graph/api/resources/channel?view=graph-rest-1.0) to find response for the required method for a channel conversation type or see [chat resource type](https://learn.microsoft.com/graph/api/resources/chat?view=graph-rest-1.0) to find response for the required method for a chat conversation type.
```
